---
title: Principles, 2025
date: 2025-12-20
---

I'm a huge fan of principles. When I studied Aikido, we placed significant focus on what we called our Four Basic Principles, which governed our practice. In my working life, I've been fascinated with principles such as Google's [10 things we know to be true](https://about.google/philosophy/) and Amazon's [Leadership Principles](https://www.amazon.jobs/content/en/our-workplace/leadership-principles). Principles like these, when developed thoughtfully, provide you with a sort of toolbox for handling those situations that you couldn't possibly expect. They allow you to respond quickly and dynamically, because you don't have to spend as much time trying to figure out the right thing to do. Periodically, I find it helpful to define my own personal set of principles. These key ideas serve as waypoints to help me make sure I'm moving in the right direction, that I'm not allowing the chaos of the present moment distract me from what I want to do or who I want to be. This time around, I've come up with four key words that I hope will govern my actions and impact: humility, confidence, perspective, and gratitude.

## Humility

This past year, I was struck by just how much there is to learn. While a lot of focus has been on AI--in particular, Large Language Models--I have learned of so many tools, technologies, and ideas that shape everything that we do. It is awesome, in the most literal sense of the word. And there's so much knowledge out that I think it's important to remember that no one person can possibly understand it all. That's why I think **humility** is important. I want to always remember that everyone I engage with brings something unique to the table. They might be an expert in a domain that I have never worked in before. They could be someone in my field, but who has drawn different conclusions from their experiences than I have from mine. Or they could be someone just starting out, bringing a fresh perspective, a sense of wonder, even a healthy dose of skepticism. I want to remember that there is so much out in the world, and mine is but a single voice and perspective among a chorus of millions.

## Confidence

While humility is important, I also want this year to be one in which I act with confidence. Just as overconfidence leads to hubris, I think over-indexing on humilty leads one to become indecisive and prone to self-doubt. [Imposter syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) is a common symptom of someone who has taken humilty too far. When I first joined Google, I was surprised at how much time people spent discussing imposter syndrome and how to avoid it. At the time, I thought it was to help new employees feel more at home in a very competitive environment. But my current understanding leads me to think that this goal was really more of a side effect. The real goal is to ensure that smart people work productively. If you're plagued with self-doubt, wondering if you're smart enough, skilled enough, **good** enough to be where you are, you cannot perform at your best. The sooner you get over your imposter syndrome, then, the sooner you become a productive member of the team. I admit I still suffer from imposter syndrome--I don't think it ever really goes away--but I also know that I have a proven track record of being good at what I do. I know how to put words together in ways that empower users. I understand how to see the big picture, how to work with people even if I disagree with them, how to manage expectations. This year, I will move and act with confidence. Doing so will both make me enjoy life better and be a better teammate at work.

## Perspective

Lately, I've been reading about Stoicism. As I understand it, this way of life really is focused on one thing: understanding what one can and cannot control. I've had the opportinity this past year to really see what happens when you can't distinguish between these two things. In some cases, I was the one who was upset about something that was, in the end, out of my hands. In other cases, it was a friend or a colleague who struggled. Taking a step back, I see now that it really is a waste of time focusing on what you cannot control. You cannot make people like you if they do not want to like you, for example. You cannot get a customer to buy your product if they aren't interested. So many actions and outcomes occur whether we want them to or not; trying to change that reality is futile. Of course, one can try and plan for the things you cannot control--I think that's a good thing to do. I can't control if it's going to rain, but I can look outside and choose to bring an umbrella. Planning allows me to shift my focus back to what I can control--my own thoughts and my own actions.

## Gratitude

Gratitude is perhaps the most important principle for me this year. Study after study shows that being grateful leads to increased contentment and happiness. I know I am guilty of forgetting this essential concept. I think of what I'd like to have or who I'd like to be, and I lose sight of what I've accomplished and how far I've come. But I don't just want to feel gratitude. I want to make sure the people around me know how grateful I am. In particular, I want to show gratitude at work. Most of us, after all, understand the importance of being grateful for family and friends--but being grateful for our coworkers is often overlooked. I want to make sure that the people I work with know that I appreciate them--even if we disagree. When I'm in a meeting, I want to focus on the people in the meeting--not on email, or slack, or some other task. When someone provides me assistance, I want to make sure I convey that I'm thankful they took the time to help. And when someone comes to me for help, I want them to know that I'm grateful for the opportunity. 

## Wrapping up

As I try to capture these principles, I notice that they're all very much interconnected. Humility, for instance, hews very close to gratitude. Both of these principles provide perspective, and perspective brings confidence. One of my martial arts teachers used to say: "If you have one training principle in mind, you have all of them." Perhaps that's the nature of these sorts of exercises. Even principles like Amazon's--famous for having ideas that *seem* in opposition, like Dive Deep and Bias for Action--are deeply interconnected. I think having a set of principles helps remind me of that everything comes down to one idea: Be the best version of you that you can, and keep striving to be better. I look forward to seeing putting these principles to work in 2025, and seeing what I can do.



